>> Mike North: Variables are great, they
give us some ability to compose things.
Right?
They give us the ability to define a color
in one place and to bring it in to
several different style roles and
several different partials.
But we need a little
bit more if we want to
compose things that are at a higher level.
Like entire sets of declarations,
entire style rules themselves.
And in SASS this is done by way
of something called mixins.
So mixins are the primary way
of reusing style in SASS.
The mental model here is that
when you invoke a mixin, it's almost
like a function that returns some style.
And that is merged right in to
wherever you define your include.
Include is the way you consume a mixin.
And when we look at the basic example use
case you'll see that sort of defining
a mixin with @mixin and
bringing it in with @include.
>> Mike North: So these things evaluate
to no style in and of themselves.
So if you just had a CSS file and
there was entirely comprised
of mixins and you turned it into a CSS
file, the file would be empty, right?
These are designed to be consumed,
they don't really do anything in and
of themselves.
So, I advise having an underscore
mixins partial that you can bring in.
Usually you'll want to bring in variables
first and then mixins after that because
often times, you'll have a mixin that
might depend on a global variable.
Right?
If you have, apply a particular theme to
something that might grab some
colors that are available globally.
Alright so these aren't all necessarily
pure functions in that they define
output simply because of inputs they might
borrow variables from the global scope,
they certainly can.
Here's an example of how we can define
a mixin so we're calling this Alert text.
And it's just white text
on a red background.
And we're making the text capitalized,
or small caps.
And you can see here that we could
bring this mixin into two places.
One for error texts, which might be
part of an alert, and the other here I'm
doing something that resembles a form
validation error where I'm using the CSS
adder function to basically
grab an HTML attribute and
to use that as the content of
this little pseudo selector here.
So two different use cases, one might be
a notification that something has gone
wrong, the other would be this
is not a valid email address but
they both are bringing in the same
red background white text.
So mixins also allow you to define
variables that they take in and
in fact this is the more common use.
If you have a mixin that takes no
arguments, takes no variables,
there is a better way to do that
that we will get into later.
So here you can see that we're able to
pass in blue for the error text, and
we're able to pass in red for has-error.
And we're gonna get the equivalent
output that you would expect there,
where it would be just as if we'd defined
those three style declarations in each of
these two classes, but
the color would change in between them.
>> Mike North: So
this is the basic concept,
@mixin to define a mixin,
@ nclude to bring it in.
Mixins do not need to
be preceded with a dot.
You just start writing
the name of the thing,